---
title: "My perspective on game demos"
---

Some games are paid, so the developers also release a demo of the full version
to attract more potential players. While this is a good idea, there are a few
issues with this, which I'll try to explain.

Demos should be a good taste of the full game. If they're overly locked down or
restricted, people that play the demo before purchasing the full game may find
they don't like it, but for specific issues that are only in the demo. For
example, some games restrict you to only a few levels, some remove some
customization features, etc, etc. While this may give you an incentive to
purchase the full version, some people that would have previously bought the
full version may no longer want it due to issues in the demo. This could
probably be solved fairly easily by having the demo being identical to the full
version, but with a unique campaign (For singleplayer games) that is unavailable
in the full version. A good example of this is
[The Stanley Parable.](http://www.stanleyparable.com/)

Well, what about multiplayer? If your game has multiplayer, that's a different
story (With more characters, haha). Now the game demo has to check if it's the
demo and not the full version, and not download level content only available in
the full version. But this method has yet another issue: what if someone has a
patched demo that ignores that check? Suddenly they have the full version with
all the level content. Another possible solution is to send the demo check to
the server and confirm it there, but again that has the same issue of being able
to modify outgoing network traffic to allow trick the server into thinking the
client is running the full version. One (Potentially worse) solution is let the
demo have all the level content available, and have the full version include
some premium-only features like character customization. (Hey, this is starting
to lean towards a Free-to-Play model!) Now this avoids nearly all the
aformentioned issued while still having paid content. This model is simple,
works, and doesn't give paying players a competitive advantage.

Another way to not give paying players a competitive advantage while making it
occasionally worth it to buy ingame items is having an ingame currency system
(Credits, gems, jewels, coins, whatever) and allow players to pay real money for
this ingame currency, and allowing any player to buy ingame items with the
ingame currency. This gives paying players an incentive to buy the ingame
currency (I'm better than you filty F2P scum!).
